We'll Smile Again is a 1942 British musical comedy film directed by John Baxter and starring Bud Flanagan, Chesney Allen and Meinhart Maur. It was written by Barbara K. Emary, Flanagan and Austin Melford.
The movie was successful at the box office and encouraged British National to make more comedies.


Premise
A ring of Nazi spies infiltrate a film studio planning to use it for sending coded messages, but they are foiled by two of the low-level staff at the studio.


Cast


Production
It was known as Glamourflage and filming started 4 May 1942. The film's sets were designed by the art director Wilfred Arnold.
It was also known as Three's a Crowd.


Reception


Box office
According to Kinematograph Weekly the film "did not disappoint" at the British box office in December 1942.


Critical
The Monthly Film Bulletin wrote: "An excellent vehicle for Flanagan and Allen, who play Bob and Maxwell respectively The slapstick comedy is well contrived and the situations are not too utterly impossible. The production includes some good extravaganza scenes in the film studios and the title is well devised. John Baxter's direction is admirable in a type of film with which he is not usually concerned."
Picturegoer wrote: Flanagan and Allen at the top of their form in a film studio spy "extravaganza, which is full of bright gags – some of them old, but none the less funny for that. ... The whole thing is ably and slickly directed by John Baxter who, even amidst his fooling does not forget the occasional human touch which is the necessary condiment for farce.
The Radio Times gave the film three out of five stars, and wrote "Unlike many stage, radio or television double acts who flounder when put on the big screen, Flanagan and Allen fared rather well as movie stars, and this is a typical effort, combining bright comedy with songs and human interest ... Directed with no pretension by John Baxter, who made several of the duo's other popular films, it is an engaging showcase for one of Britain's best-loved song-and-comedy teams."


References


External links
We'll Smile Again at IMDb