Far From Home is a drama television series and one of the first Nigerian series on Netflix. The series, written by Dami Elebe and produced by Inkblot productions premiered on Netflix on December 16, 2022. The five-part series stars Mike Afolarin, Richard Mofe-Damijo, Bimbo Akintola, Carol King, Adesua Etomi, Funke Akindele, Bolanle Ninalowo, Genoveva Umeh, Natse Jemide and a host of others.


Synopsis
Far From Home tells the story of Ishaya Bello, a talented but poor teenager struggling to pursue his dream of becoming an artist. Luck shines on him when he stumbles on the rare opportunity to win a scholarship to the elite Wilmer Academy, although he is only interested in using the scholarship grant to fund his trip to London where he has been offered an apprenticeship with established artist Essien.
After his mother Patricia spends his hard-earned savings on her ailing husband, Ishaya Senior without their son's consent, thus putting paid to his ambition, Ishaya steals from the nightclub where he works as a waiter. To avoid being murdered by cartel boss Oga Rambo, he offers to peddle MDMA to the Wilmer students, although once again he is nearly killed for using Rambo's second-in-command Government's supply. While masquerading as a student, Ishaya's illicit maneuvering leads to further chaos in Wilmer, at home, and within the cartel hierarchy. After his sister is kidnapped by Rambo's gang, they carry out a similar move with Ishaya's school friend, Frank which leaves him traumatised. Rambo then attacks Wilmer Academy, which leads to more trouble for Ishaya and his family.


Selected cast
Mike Afolarin as Ishaya Bello
Elma Mbadiwe as Carmen Wilmer-Willoughby
Genoveva Umeh as Zina
Bolanle Ninalowo as Oga Rambo
Bucci Franklin as Government
Natse Jemide as Reggie
Richard Mofe-Damijo as Feyi Wilmer-Willoughby
Bimbo Akintola as Mabel Wilmer-Willoughby
Funke Akindele as Patricia Bello
Paul Adams as Ishaya Bello Snr
Olumide Oworu as Atlas
Adesua Etomi as Mrs Irurhe
Tomi Ojo as Rahila
Linda Ejiofor as Mrs Abubakar
Carol King as Principal Gemade
Gbubemi Ejeye as Adufe
Richard Tanksley as Mr. Boyle
Deyemi Okanlawon as Essien
Ruby Okezie as Nnenna


Episodes


Production and release
Far From Home produced by Inkblot Productions is the First Nigerian Young Adult (YA) Netflix Original series also doubles as the first young adult genre coming out of West Africa. The premiere of the movie held in Lagos on 14 December 2022 and it featured host of celebrities in attendance.


References