The Seamaster 2017 ITTF World Tour was the 22nd season of the International Table Tennis Federation's professional table tennis world tour.
The events for the 2017 tour were split into two tiers: World Tour Platinum and World Tour. The Platinum events offered higher prize money and more points towards the ITTF World Tour standings, which determined the qualifiers for the 2017 ITTF World Tour Grand Finals in December.
On 12 January 2017 it was announced that Chinese shipping company Seamaster had agreed a four-year sponsorship deal with the ITTF World Tour.


Schedule
Below is the schedule released by the ITTF:


Events


Winners


World Tour Platinum


World Tour


Finals


World Tour Platinum


Qatar Open


Japan Open


China Open


Australian Open


Austrian Open


German Open


World Tour


Hungarian Open


India Open


Korea Open


Bulgarian Open


Czech Open


Swedish Open


Standings


Singles
Points were accumulated during the singles tournaments at each of the twelve ITTF World Tour events. The 15 men and 16 women who played in at least five events and accumulated the largest number of points were invited to play in the Grand Finals in Astana in December. Kazakhstan's Kirill Gerassimenko was also invited to take part in the men's singles event, to ensure that the host nation was represented.


Doubles
Points were accumulated during the doubles tournaments at each of the twelve ITTF World Tour events. The eight men's pairs and eight women's pairs who played in at least four events and accumulated the largest number of points, as a pair, were invited to play in the Grand Finals in Astana in December.


Grand Finals

The 2017 ITTF World Tour Grand Finals took place in Astana, Kazakhstan, from 14–17 December 2017.


ITTF Challenge Series
In addition to the twelve ITTF World Tour events, eleven ITTF Challenge Series events also took place in 2017. These events were held in Belarus, Thailand, Chile, Slovenia, Croatia, Brazil, North Korea, Nigeria, Poland, Belgium and Spain. For the first time, the Challenge Series did not form part of the main ITTF World Tour.


See also
2017 World Table Tennis Championships
2017 ITTF Men's World Cup
2017 ITTF Women's World Cup
2017 in table tennis


References


External links
2017 ITTF World Tour
International Table Tennis Federation