Xerotyphlops vermicularis, the European blind snake, European worm snake, Eurasian blind snake, or Eurasian worm snake, is a species of snake in the genus Xerotyphlops. Despite its common name, the range of the European blind snake ranges from the Balkan Peninsula, the Aegean Islands, and Cyprus to Afghanistan. The northernmost region it inhabits is just north of the Gulf of Burgas in Bulgaria. The common name results from the fact that is the only blindsnake naturally found in Europe (the brahminy blindsnake, Indotyphlops braminus, has been introduced to Kew Gardens and in Italy and Spain).


Description
Xerotyphlops vermicularis is a small, earthworm-like snake that has a maximum length of 35 cm. The head, body, and tail generally have no differentiation between them and look like one fluid segment. The coloration tends to be light brown, yellowish, or flesh colored. Juveniles do not usually have different coloring than the adults, but some have been known to look pinkish when they are smaller. It is difficult to tell male and female European blind snakes apart; however, males will generally have longer tails than the females.


Reproduction


Courtship
X. vermicularis is generally found underneath rocks in groups when mating season is beginning. Their mating behavior typically follows a three-step process:

Tactile-chase: males first contact with female; involves chemosensory sampling as well as rubbing and biting the female.
Tactile-alignment: males initial attempt at copulation; tactile-chase behaviors can also occur at the same time; male attempts to align tail with the females.
Intromission Coitus: females open their cloaca and allow males to insert their hemipenes.
Due to the size of these snakes, the beginning and end of each phase is difficult to differentiate.


Copulation
This process takes place during the months of May and June and egg laying takes place between July and August. The male is wrapped around the mid-section of the female with their cloacae pressed closely together. They stay connected like that for roughly 1-2 minutes and afterwards the male disconnects himself from the female and moves away.


See also
List of typhlopid species and subspecies


References


External links
 Data related to Xerotyphlops vermicularis at Wikispecies
 Media related to Xerotyphlops vermicularis at Wikimedia Commons