The following is a list of notable people who were either born in, raised in, or were one-time residents of Roanoke, Virginia. Roanoke natives are also referred to as Roanokers.


Born in Roanoke
Tony Atlas, wrestler
Ronde Barber, NFL player
Tiki Barber, NFL player
Beth A. Brown, NASA astrophysicist
George E. Bushnell, Michigan Supreme Court justice
Tai Collins, model and actress
Lew DeWitt, founding tenor and guitarist of the Statler Brothers
Henry H. Fowler, U.S. Secretary of the Treasury
Dorothy Gillespie, artist, sculptor
Antoinette Hale, painter
Luke Hancock, basketball player
Jim Harrell, professional wrestler
K. J. Hippensteel, tennis player
James Hylton, racing driver
Louis A. Johnson, United States Secretary of Defense
Danny Karbassiyoon, soccer player
Henrietta Lacks, medical patient
Tosca Lee, author
George Lynch, NBA player
John C. Mather, astrophysicist and Nobel laureate
John Alan Maxwell, artist
Walter Muir, International Master of Correspondence Chess
John Payne, actor
Don Pullen, jazz pianist
Billy Sample, MLB player
John St. Clair, NFL player
Curtis Staples, basketball player
Lee Suggs, NFL player
Nicholas F. Taubman, former United States ambassador to Romania
Lois Weaver, artist, activist, writer, director, and professor of Contemporary Performance at Queen Mary University of London
Eric Weinrich, NHL player
Zach Zimmerman, comedian and author


Raised in Roanoke
George Canale, MLB player
India Ferrah, drag queen
Wayne LaPierre, CEO of the National Rifle Association of America
John McAfee, founder of McAfee
Wayne Newton, singer
J. J. Redick, NBA player
Joshua Strachan, musician


One-time residents
Fleming Alexander, minister, businessman and publisher of the Roanoke Tribune
Nelson S. Bond, author
Sarah Johnson Cocke, writer and civic leader
Whitney Cummings, comedian and actress
Pearl Fu, longtime leader of the Local Colors festival and namesake of Pearl Fu Plaza
Nidal Hasan, shooter in the 2009 Fort Hood shooting
Oliver Hill, civil rights attorney
Kermit Hunter, playwright
Johan Kriek, tennis player
Quigg Lawrence, Anglican bishop
Samuel W. Martien, Louisiana cotton planter and politician
Oscar Micheaux, early 20th century filmmaker
John Forbes Nash, mathematician and Nobel laureate
Harry Penn, dentist and civic rights activist
John Henry Pinkard, businessman, banker and herb doctor
G. Samantha Rosenthal, historian, author, and academic
Curtis Turner, NASCAR driver and Hall of Famer
Harriet French Turner, folk artist


References