Jane Marie (February 12, 1978) is a Peabody and Emmy Award-winning journalist well known for producing This American Life for nearly a decade. She now co-owns Little Everywhere, a podcast production house and recording studio in Los Angeles.


Career
Marie started her career in 2002 as an intern at This American Life before being promoted to producer and music supervisor of TAL and television series of the same name. She still consults as music supervisor on the popular radio show.
Also a writer, Marie served as an editor for Jezebel and The Hairpin and has penned regular columns for sites including The Toast and Cosmopolitan. Known for straight talking and occasionally controversial opinions, Marie launched a Jezebel advice column titled "Dear Jane" in 2017, answering questions on everything from sex to racism.

In 2016, she partnered with musician, producer and audio engineer Dann Gallucci to open a podcast production house and recording studio called Little Everywhere. In addition to working with clients like Midroll, Earwolf, Stitcher and Audible, she is the host of Tinder's official podcast, DTR.
In 2024, her book Selling the Dream: The Billion Dollar Industry Bankrupting Americans about the multi-level marketing industry was published by Simon & Schuster's Atria Publishing Group.


Personal life
Marie was born Jane Marie Golombisky in Ann Arbor, Michigan on February 12, 1978. After dropping out of high-school and earning a diploma through the mail, she graduated with honors from the University of Illinois.
Her decision to go solely by her first and middle names came after marrying and subsequently divorcing Rick Feltes and comedian Julian McCullough, with whom she has a daughter, Goldie. Marie and Goldie live in Los Angeles, California.


Awards
2020: The Webbys Award: Best Podcast Writing
2019: iHeart Radio Award, Best Branded Podcast "DTR"
2009: Emmy Award nomination, Outstanding Nonfiction Series, This American Life
2008: Emmy Award, Outstanding Nonfiction Series, This American Life
2007: IDA Continuing Series Award, This American Life
2006: Peabody Award, This American Life


References


External links
Official website of Little Everywhere
Official website of DTR
Official website of Jezebel
Official website of Midroll